# UMHUB Vision Statement

## A one-stop-shop for all university students' needs.

UMHUB will be used to guide students to choose the correct program and courses under their degree path. It will show an outline of the course order the students should enrol in and provide an overview of different subjects and their professors. Users can choose to join the system to access other actions, including rating courses and professors. The system will act as a tool to motivate students to prepare ahead for classes by using relevant discussion groups and a place to exchange or sell textbooks. 

This system is mainly targeted towards students currently studying at the University of Manitoba, though it can also be of use to prospective students, recent graduates and academic advisors. Students can easily see all the different courses, including any course prerequisites, they can take in a program and also look at the content taught in those courses all in one place. Moreover, students will have the chance to discuss and get help from peers who agree to provide tutoring. Prospective students can also use this system to educate themselves on the various courses available at the university, helping them plan for their future semesters. Apart from students, academic advisors will also be able to use this system to talk about different degree paths a student can take and guide them conveniently.

The system will be a significant improvement to the already existing designs. It will provide answers to all the frequently asked questions of the users, particularly the students.  The long queues in front of the student advisors' offices and delayed responses can get frustrating. Therefore the system aims to provide the students with all the necessary course information quickly and easily without any appointments. The system will provide adequate information to help the students choose the correct course at the right time, preventing them from having to drop out or enrol in excess courses and speeding up their degree completion. Besides, users can also buy and sell used textbooks within the system itself and avoid buying expensive new ones or struggle to find used books. Past students can provide details of their experiences working with different courses and professors. The general discussion groups and social groups will help develop peer bonds, especially amongst the new undergraduate students. Additionally, the system is planned to be easy to use and reliable by all users equally. 

The success of the project is based on several criteria. First is a short term goal of attracting at least 75% of the student body at the University of Manitoba. Then, a long-term mission to expand the system to be used across other North American universities. Since much of the system relies on student contribution, it will be considered successful if all current users view their course paths and use the available resources, mainly during course registration periods. Finally, another success criteria of the project will be to have 20-30 ratings, publishes or advertisements daily. Ultimately, the main goal of the project is to make necessary guidance directly available to help students succeed at their university degrees. 